# efficiency

Not the only thing that matters, though it silently plays a huge role.
[(Firefox theme)](https://color.firefox.com/?theme=XQAAAAK9AgAAAAAAAABBqYhm849SCicxcUHkAiuG_ebZUZXOFqknydaZDq6UH5oxhAf9IrlC4fie0MNIcu3LScQF3tByXz7mR2EGxzYmT-6STTYSfdPnkozO7aEEzJ0RPkLTaphCq73pAFjTBnSEE6CGZzc32hoQybk4voViUh8AshfIpwxbZq59Oa_UxQleRhKE2WXh4VFJvNDzJMxbY0jRtzjLqAjYUxc8_e8gXc8349duEWRdeII3q18tyb29gMquc-r2VfwomFe-XsGzJ9OL_4WwpM_OoDYLvKRdlFWGvXV1D2FuTWLPz2lu6ixafjvagtE0K1VkJnXsFsCaTOK2j9EIpQNO1Wb1yyS_e_z8x-G88ACVbcQz7kcNWn8Vv5XXUyiLMWM_6SRmmmEtrYalPRmwBMrTnYqOia6uAcmFdAF4H1_Wa0rl__T6YqA)

Efficiency. Absent efficiency is what can keep tasks from completion,
efficiency is what thrives could thrive a team which is motivated by other
factors. But it's not the only relevant factor. It's actually merely a
composition which only comes to light when other factors are exactly right. How
and what this "exactly right" is and how it can be achieved is largely a
subjective thing though. Still, this factor, which seems so easy to grasp but
has a large opaque layer right behind the first look. There's no universal way
to achieve efficiency, only a few tips like "take breaks often, doing walks is
great for letting other thoughts come in if you're facing a blocker, disable all
distractions which you might have to allow the magic flow to arrive". And still,
the whole world, the whole modern society searches for and builds on efficiency.

But there's no such simple thing as "efficiency". There's only efficiency in
context of a goal, or a target. Sure, you can say "I solved this insanely
difficult programming problem in an efficient way", but it's still not clear in
what way exactly you were efficient. Did you look for spending as little time as
possible on the problem and did not care about potential performance
improvements or memory usage? Did you grind through months in order to achieve
the best possible runtime performance? Did you try to stay generalized as
possible to allow flexible application of your solution in every scenario one
can think of?

This topic sure can be sad if we think about what people ignore and miss out on
in order to be "efficient" from their own view. Though doing it the other way
around will get you nowhere either. This weird construct seems to be quite
important when... doing anything, in fact.

Anyways, I'm neither a book author nor a philosopher, I actually only wanted to
try out how my scheme looks like when writing non-colored text. I entered the
first color into the scheme definition on 2022.08.07 10:44:36, and I'm writing
these lines on 2022.08.08 11:05:12. Have I been efficient, in whatever way that
might be? I don't care. I like the result and that's all that matters to me
right now.
